Helen, I'm Dr. Jonathan Barker, pastor here at Amazing Grace Baptist Church in Mount area, North Carolina.
I would like to personally thank you for taking out time today to tune in to our preaching podcast.
We hope that this message will be a great encouragement to your heart today.
Luke chapter number 16, let's stand in honor and reverence to the reading of God's Word.
I want to pick up reading in verse number 19, Luke chapter number 16.
verse number 19.
The Bible said this, there was a certain rich man which was clothed in purple and fine-leaning and fared sumptuously every day.
There was a certain beggar named Lazarus which was laid at his gate full of sores and desired to be fed with the crumbs which fell from the rich man's table.
Moreover, the dogs came and licked his sores and it came to pass that the beggar died and was carried by the angels in Abraham's bosom.
The rich man also died and was buried.
And in the hell he lift up his eyes, being in torment and see if Abraham will fall off and Lazarus in his bosom.
And he cried and said, Father Abraham have mercy on me and sent Lazarus that he may dip the tip of his finger in water and cool my tongue for I am tormented in this flame.
But Abraham said, son, remember that now in thy lifetime receive us thy good things.
Likewise, lives receivable things, but now he is comfort and endow our tormented.
And besides all of this, between us and you, there's a great gulf fix, so that they, which would pass from him, so you cannot, neither can they pass to us that would come from then.
Then he said, I pray thee therefore, Father, that thou would ascend him to my father's house, for I have five brethren that he may testify unto them.
lest they also come into this place of torment.
Abraham said unto him, they have Moses and the prophets let them hear them.
And he said, and they follow the Abraham.
But if one went into them from the dead, they will repent.
And he said unto him, if they hear not Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded, though one rose from the dead.
I want you to look back in verse number 25.
And I want to call your attention to two words in this verse where the Bible said, son, remember.
And I want to preach to you just a little while this morning and probably talk to you more than I guess you would say, quote unquote, rare back and preaching to you this morning.
On those two words, son, remember, father, I love you today.
And I thank you God for your blessings on our life.
Father, thank you for being good to me.
Thank you God for loving me.
Thank you God for saving me.
God, you know the very need of the service today.
I pray that over the next few minutes, God, that you would clear my mind.
I pray, God, that you would help me, God, remember the things that we've studied.
God, I pray, Lord, that you'd make preaching easy for us today.
Touch us in anornous Father with a Holy Spirit today.
God, give us fresh oil as only you can.
God, no doubt underneath the sound of my voice this morning is Father, probably more than one.
that will find their eternity in a place called hell if they don't get saved.
And I pray, God, that this morning, God, that you'd bind every demon in hell.
God, you said in Revelation that they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb, by the Word of their testimony.
They love not their lives even under death.
So we plead the blood of Calvary over the service today.
I pray, God, that you'd put a holy hush, Father, any hindrance.
Father, that would hinder you working today.
I pray, God, that you would remove that from the service today.
God, may we realize that I truly believe that your coming is at hand.
And God, even that if you don't come back soon, God, that we are not promised our next breath, that God, whenever we leave this world, we will spend an eternity in one of two places.
God do the work that only you can do for the saved.
I pray God that you would challenge our heart to do more for you and to share the gospel even more from the message today.
In Jesus' name, amen and amen, you can be seated today.
I wish that you'd pray for us as I preach this morning that God would give us the liberty that we need.
I want to talk to you just a little while today.
And again, I said to us that if you have things written down in your Bible, some of these things will probably be written down from years gone by, but that's all right.
I want to talk to you about this thought, son, remember today.
Whenever we come to Luke chapter number 16, there is those who read this passage and even some commentators and
some preachers today that would have us to believe that this passage is nothing more than a parable in our Bible today.
However, you'll find that when studying the Word of God and you'll find that when studying parables in the Bible, that there is never a name that is mentioned in a parable.
We find here today that there is a name that is mentioned, so therefore we know
that this is not a parable in the Scripture today.
This is a true account of a place called hell today.
Matter of fact, it is quite possible, the greatest picture of a place called hell that we find in the Word of God today.
I say this to you today in order to believe this this morning, there must be an element of faith.
Faith comes with every part of the Bible.
So then faith cometh by hearing and the hearing by the Word of God.
Without faith, it's impossible to believe God or to trust God, or to please God.
And I wanna say this to you this morning, when it comes to heaven and when it comes to hell, it is believed by faith today.
You say, preacher, do you really believe that there is a place called heaven?
Absolutely, I believe that.
preacher, do you really believe that there is a place called hell today?
Absolutely beyond the shadow of a doubt.
I believe that there is a place called hell today.
And what you must come to the realization of is the us that hell was not created for you today.
Hell was created for the devil and his angels.
A fire was kindled in the anger of God.
And you may ask the question today, well, then why would God send anybody to hell?
God has never sent anybody to hell.
Man chooses within himself to reject the thrice Holy God, to deny the existence of God, to not repent of their sins.
They choose within themselves to step over bloody calvary.
And in doing that, they choose themselves to go to hell.
God provided a way for you not to go to hell.
It's up to you by faith to trust that and believe in him and ask him to forgive you of your sin so you won't go to hell one day.
When we come to this passage of Scripture, I think that we could look at it in a very practical viewpoint this morning by way of introduction, and we could say this.
Whenever looking at this passage of Scripture today, we could say that there is two families here.
Whenever we begin looking at it, you'll note that there is the rich man.
I'm about to break this collar off of my shirt.
All right, there we go.
Now I can get a loosen up.
You'll find that there is two families that's here.
You'll find that there is a rich man.
And there is a poor man.
There is a man that we could say it this way.
Had a lot in his family.
And then a man that had nothing.
Matter of fact, nothing is mentioned about Lazarus' family.
Nothing is mentioned about a mom or a dad or a brother or a sister.
He was just a poor man that was living on the streets.
A homeless man, if you want to look at it that way.
While the other
a family.
We would say this, there was two families, but I think we could also say to us, there was two funerals.
There's two funerals here today.
One of them, we could say it this way.
He died and was carried by the angels in Abraham's bosom.
The other man died and was buried, and in hell he lift up his eyes.
If we could say it, we would say it this way.
Probably somebody at Moody's called a preacher like myself and said, hey, we've got somebody.
We don't know nothing about them.
But would you come speak and do a little bit of a funeral for them?
And I would in turn say, absolutely.
I'll be glad to like I have before.
There was two funerals, but on the other hand, here
is a man that probably had one of the biggest funerals of that day.
They probably had the finest chariots that they was.
There was carrying his call from that day.
He probably had some hireling to stand up and talk about how great of a life he had lived and everything great he had done.
There was two funerals that come from these two families.
Then we could also say,
There was two futures.
There was definitely two futures.
You see, the Bible said one of them died and was carried by the angels in Abraham's bosom.
The other one died and was buried.
In other words, one went to heaven and the other one went to hell.
One went to heaven and the other one went to hell.
And I want to say something to you this morning when you close your eyes and death, you're going to one of those two places today.
There's no other place to go.
You're not just going to return to the ground.
You're not going to go to purgatory and hope that somebody praise you out of it.
There's heaven and there is hell.
And when you close your eyes and death, your future will be one of those two places.
There's no way around that.
It's heaven or it's hell.
I want to look at this rich man.
He opened his eyes and hell.
And I find it interesting that he begins to talk back and forth.
And here's what he's told.
He looks at the rich man, it's interesting that his name's not even mentioned, but the poor man's name's mentioned.
It's interesting, you see, what we do for Christ is really all that matters at the end of the way.
He looks at him and he says these two words, son, remember.
Remember, and here's what I want to show you some things that I think that you'll remember if you open your eyes in hell one day.
Your remembrance will be there.
You will.
It's very evident throughout the printed page of God's Word this morning that his remembrance was there.
Son, remember some things that you're going to remember if you die and go to hell.
Number one, I would say this.
And I understand this one may not apply to everybody, but to a majority of the people that's in here today I think this one will apply.
Number one, I would say some remember parents that were compassionate to you.
Parents, you say, why do you think that he remembered that?
Well, well, can I just, can I just borrow your mind for a minute?
I find it very interesting that in this story,
His brothers are referred to.
But nothing about His mom and daddy is said in this story.
Nothing about, and I know we could speculate and say, well, it's because they was already dead.
Him, they was nothing that they could do.
But the truth of the matter is this, a lot of times parents out live kids.
We don't know everything about the story.
But can I say this?
Nothing is said about his parents.
Can I preach it in our day for just a minute?
Can I bring it into our dispensation for just a minute?
Maybe he had a mom and daddy that took him to the house of God.
Maybe he had a mom and daddy that read the Bible to him.
Maybe he had a mom and daddy that cared about him, hadn't tried to raise him right, hadn't trained him right.
And can I tell you something?
When he opened his eyes in hell, he remembered, he remembered a mom and daddy that had compassion on him.
He remembered a mom and daddy that had compassion on him.
If you're sitting here today, no matter your age, and you had a mom and daddy that loved you and taught you the things of God, and has tried to bring you a pride, and you've rejected God, you've rejected the preaching, you've rejected the blood of Calvary, and you die and go to hell.
There's not a doubt in my mind that one day you'll open your eyes in hell, and you'll remember
I'm a daddy that prayed for you.
I'm a mom and daddy that cared for you.
I'm a mom and daddy that taught you right.
Son, remember.
Said, remember, remember what I would say to you.
I said, I'm not going to preach that long this morning, old thing.
Remember parents that were compassionate.
Parents that cared.
Number two, I would say to you.
Son, remember, remember what?
When you open your eyes and he'll remember, remember what?
Listen to this.
Prove a dance that we're caring.
Prove a dance.
You should preach what do you mean?
The providential hand of God.
We live in a society today that many people think that there is just an elect few
that can be saved.
That it's called Calvinism, that's what it's called.
And they believe that if you're predestined to be saved, and that word is in the Bible, and it has nothing to do with salvation.
Let me just say that.
You study the Bible in context, it has nothing to do with salvation.
But they believe that if Brother DC is predestined to be saved, that no matter what he does,
he'll be saved.
No matter what he does, he'll be saved.
Number one, let me say this.
If I believe that, this is what I'm fixing to say.
If I believe that, I would not wear my vocal cords out preaching all over this country.
I would not do it.
I wouldn't bring Jonathan.
I wouldn't run everywhere matter of the fact.
You're going to really get mad at me right here.
If I believe that, I'd probably brother, I need to just live my life any way I wanted to.
Hear me say the reason why, because if I'm going to get saved, I'm going to get saved from that.
I'm not.
But I'm going to tell you something.
That is not the God of the Bible today.
You say, well, what are you talking about?
Private dance.
Here's what I'm talking about.
There's the providential hand of God that cared about you.
And the reason that you're not dead in hell today is because of the providence of a holy God.
That's why reason, some foolish act that you've done sometime along the way didn't snap you out in eternity.
What did he say?
He said, surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life before I ever God saved of the providential hand of an Almighty God was in my life.
And if you die and go to hell today, you're going to remember the providence of a Holy God over and over and over the providential hand of God took care of
Number three, son, remember.
Remember what I would say this.
I would say this son, remember the preacher that was concerned about you.
The preacher that was concerned.
Some people think that the preacher stays mad and the reason he says what he says sometimes, because he's mad.
Oh, there is a little bit of truth to that.
Boy, everybody got quite right here.
That's nothing to do with you.
It has to do with Satan.
I'm mad at Satan.
Robert, our young people of a true peace and joy and happiness.
Are you with me?
I'm mad at Satan destroying homes, dragging young people off into hell.
Dragging preachers out of the pool pit and ruining their ministries.
Yes.
I'm mad at them at him I'm gonna tell you something that if you got a preacher that really cares I'm gonna tell you something when you open your eyes and hell one day
If you're sitting in this service this morning, and you dying go to hell one day, they ain't a doubt in my mind.
I believe this with everything in me.
I believe you'll open your eyes in hell and you'll remember every message you ever heard me preach.
You'll remember every time I opened the Bible.
You'll remember every time I begged you to get right with God and give your life to the Lord Jesus Christ.
You'll remember a preacher that cared about you.
I'm going to tell you something.
A preacher's not worth two nickels to rub together.
That won't preach hell, hot in heaven, sweet.
That won't preach living a separated life.
That won't preach the entire cancel of the Word of God.
He's not worth anything.
Matter of fact, the Bible calls him a higher than today.
But a preacher that really cares will tell you the truth.
Thank God for a preacher when I was lost and on the road to hell that stood up in the power and the ocean of the Holy Ghost of God hadn't preached hell, hadn't preached hell, hadn't preached hell to me.
I'm telling you something, you're going to remember a preacher that cares, a preacher that cares.
Ain't a doubt in my mind.
I believe if you die and go to hell out of this service today.
I believe you'll remember this service.
I believe you'll remember the songs that were sung.
I believe you'll remember the announcements.
I believe you'll remember every time you had an opportunity to be saved.
Ever alter, call ever a preacher that ever tried to get you to get.
I believe you'll remember it.
Remember a preacher that cares.
Number four of this one, I told you I'm going to preach on.
If you die and go to hell, he said, son, remember, son, remember, I would say this in closing.
If you die and go to hell, I believe that you'll remember a precious savior that went to Calvary.
A precious, I know this is topical this morning, but it's all right.
I'm just going to obey the Lord.
A precious savior that went to Calvary.
Easter's coming up.
I love it.
Man, I love it.
It's what separates us from all other religions.
There's a lot of them that had a quote unquote God.
There's a lot of them that had a quote unquote savior, but John, they died that savior did it.
You know what?
If you want us to go to the tomb of Buddha, he's still there.
If you go to the tomb of the Lord Jesus Christ, you'll not find him there.
Thank God.
Easter is what?
Hey, it separates us out.
Here's what I want you to say this morning.
If you die and go to hell, you're going to remember a Savior, a precious Savior that went to Calvary.
Again, the question is asked, I'm going to start playing softly.
Why would God send me to hell?
God won't.
You say we'll preach at the great judgment if I don't know the Lord.
He's going to cast us into hell.
I'm going to tell you something, then you made that show us before you ever got to the judgment.
Because there's a press to save you that loves you.
And that press to save you that loves you has given you a preacher down through the years that would preach to you.
And that preacher in his preaching said that there's a providential hand to God.
It's kept you out of hell this long.
They spend some parents that's tried their best to turn you in a different direction.
Son, remember, remember what?
Remember, oppress your Savior.
Appress your Savior.
You ever thought about the love?
A lot of times we say the love of God, and I understand what we mean by that.
What have you ever thought about the love of Jesus?
I know they're in simple.
I know there's God, the Father, God, the Son, God, the Holy Ghost.
I'm not going to argue all that way, okay?
But just stay with me for a minute.
Jesus was the one that was at all points tempted like I am, yeah, without sin.
Jesus was the one on the mountain of transfiguration.
Jesus was the one that had a cat,
nine tales that he was beat with.
What he went through so that you don't have to, that cat of nine tales, and you've heard me say this before, that cat of nine tales, they say that they trained the Roman soldiers and how to use that.
And a lot of times we say this, we say, well, he was whipped
40 stripes save one.
I believe it was more.
You have to understand the Roman laws of crucifixion and every Roman law of crucifixion was broken.
You study it and you read it.
You know, I don't have time to, it was, but Jonathan, why did they keep that one?
They didn't keep that one.
I believe they done everything in their power to kill him on the scorching block that day.
They said that, that kind of non-tales, it wasn't just any soldier that used it that day.
But they were strategically trained in how to do it.
And they said that they would with all of their mind, their weight and their power.
They would step into, well, it makes me think of hitting a softball or a baseball.
They would step into it with everything that they had.
And they wouldn't just smite his back and then pull it back up and smite his back.
From what I could study, they would come down on him, brother Noah, and then they would pause.
And in that pause,
It allowed those pieces of bone and those pieces of glass and those different things that was in it to literally sink into the flesh.
And then they wouldn't pick it up.
They would rip it back.
They would throw it on him and wait and then rip it back off of him.
According to Psalms 22, his bone stared at him that day.
His bowels gushed from within.
They took that as Brother Williams preached to us other night.
That crown of thorns and placed it on his head and probably took that read and drove it down on his head.
They stripped him of his robe.
He hung that day according to everything that history tells us.
and all shamed nude before everybody.
And they took his garment, they gambled on his garment in front of him that day.
And as the blood run off of his head, as the blood run out of his entire body that day, he made this statement.
Father, I'm talking about provident.
Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do.
Father, forgive them.
Matter of fact, when you study the tints out that it's all sentient, from what I can find out, Mr. Regina, he said it repeatedly, over and over and over.
You know what he was doing?
He was looking down through time.
And going, Father, forgive Zeb, for he knows not what he does.
Father, forgive Chelsea, for she knows not what she does.
Father, forgive Robert, for he knows not what he does.
Father, forgive Madeline, for she knows not what she does.
Father, forgive Ted, for he knows not what he does.
Father, forgive Mike, for he knows not what he does.
But before we ever ask,
I'm talking about a passionate Savior before we ever ask, before we was ever born, before we ever knew anything about Him, before we ever even had breath in our lungs, Jesus was on the cross of Calvary, and He was saying to us, Father forgive them, for they know not what they do.
You're going to remember that when you open your eyes in
You're going to remember that.
Can I just give you some, I'm in studying on forgiveness again.
Can I just throw this out in passing?
Jesus forgave us long before we ever ask for forgiveness.
Forgiveness starts when you forgive before they ever ask.
There are some people that's forgiven by God, but they never ask for it and they'll die and go to hell one day.
Forgiveness does not rest on the person asking forgiveness rest on the person that's giving before it's ever asked for.
Before you ever ask Jesus to forgive you, He had already done it.
Oh, son, remember, I don't ask you this question this morning.
If this is your last service, you're sitting here and you're lost, you know you're lost.
You know if you wants to die, that you wouldn't go to heaven.
Or can I say it this way?
There's a question in your mind.
I'm just not sure, preacher.
And I ask you, if you knew this was your last opportunity,
You know, this was it after this, it's done.
Would you make it right?
Would you get that assurance?
Would you get saved?
Can I just answer it for everybody?
Yeah.
There ain't a person in here that's interested in going to hell for eternity.
Don't ask you another question.
How do you know it's not?
How do you know that when the service is ended, that Jesus is not going to come back?
How do you know that after this service is ended, that you're not going to get in a car and start up throwing something tragic happen?
God knows we don't want that to happen, but the truth of the matter is this.
It happens every day.
Son, remember.